hey everyone this is kamran and today
we're going to talk about acid which are
the four properties of any database
system that help in making sure that
we're able to perform the transactions
in a reliable manner
yes it is an acronym which stands for
atomicity consistency isolation and
durability
first of all we have atomicity by
atomicity we mean that the database is
able to perform the transactions in an
atomic manner so what do we mean by that
before we discuss this let's make sure
that we know what is a transaction
so transaction is just a single unit of
work which can either be one query or it
can be multiple queries let's say that
we have two accounts and we need to
transfer some amount from account one to
account two
now this transfer is just one
transaction but it is going to consist
of three different steps
the first is checking if the account one
does have hundred dollars
the second would be updating the amount
of account one to be nine hundred
dollars
and the third would be taking this
hundred dollar and making the
balance in account two be two hundred
dollar
now if the database does support atomic
transactions
if one of these three steps fail the
whole transaction should fail and the
database should not result in a corrupt
state so what do we mean by that
let's revert the amounts to be one
thousand dollar and one hundred dollars
and let's run through this again
the first step would be checking if the
account one has hundred dollar available
the second would be removing hundred
dollar from account one
so we made it nine hundred dollar and
now let's say that the third step failed
and we were not able to transfer the
amount to account two or update the
value in the account two bonus now one
of these three steps failed so the whole
transaction should fail and the database
should be able to revert the amount in
account one to be one thousand dollar
again
now let's run through this again so
let's say that the first step passed and
the second step also passed
and the third step also passed and we
were able to update the amount in
account too
now all these three steps passed so the
whole transaction passed now this state
should be pergisted in database
so this is what atomicity is the
database should support the atomic
transactions which means either the
whole transaction must finish
or we should be able to revert the
database to the old state so that we
don't have that corrupt data
alright so next we have consistency
consistency just means that the database
should help in achieving the correct
data state
how does database do that it helps by
making sure that the constraints that we
have set for our data they must be
followed so let's say that we have a
constraint on the amount column that it
can never be negative the database must
make sure that the constraint must
always be followed and it can never
allow the negative values inside the
amount column
next we have isolation which is mainly
about the concurrency control so how the
database should perform when there are
concurrent executions so let's say that
we have an account which has around one
thousand dollars and there are two
persons a and b
trying to get the money out of this
account so one thousand dollars and one
hundred dollars
if we let both of these transactions
happen at the same time so this would
result in the deduction of 1100
so the balance would result in the
negative 100
isolation helps in preventing that so it
means that the database should perform
that concurrent transaction in the same
manner that it would perform the
sequential transactions
so let's say both a and b are trying to
get the money at the same time from the
same account
now the database should make sure that
it picks up one of these persons either
a or b it doesn't really matter
and perform the transaction once
and update the
balance in the account
so that when the next one comes in it
should make sure that it has the correct
state already available in the database
there is more to isolation and
concurrency control in the databases
but we'll be discussing more about it in
the future videos i will also be
discussing what is optimistic currency
control and also what is the difference
from pessimistic concurrency control
all right so the final one we have today
is durability durability just means that
once that transactions have been
committed the data must be written to
the non-volatile memory or the storage
so that even if the crash happens or
something wrong happens with the
database the data must be there and not
be corrupted
all right so that is all what asset is
all the major relational databases are
asset compliant however most of the
nosql databases are not
they're mostly designed to be highly
available which means that they have to
sacrifice on either the consistency or
maybe the durability
mongodb also supports transactions since
version 4 and is also asset compliant to
some extent
and that is all for this one thank you
for watching and i will see you in the
next one